well howdy there Internet people it's Bo
again so tonight we're going to talk
about democracies and republics we're
going to talk about this because no joke
at least twice a month somebody in the
UK or Canada or Australia sends me a
message and asks why do Americans have
this conversation over and over again in
the comment section it doesn't make any
sense the simplest answer to that is
your school systems are better than ours
the longer answer is its semantics and
it's part of our national identity it's
something that were brought up to
believe that eventually we're going to
have to question and basically I often
say the United States is a democracy
because it is right now in the comment
section somebody is saying no we're a
republic that's the conversation that
confuses them because it doesn't
actually make any sense
okay the u.s. is a democracy it is a
representative democracy it is not a
direct democracy when people say it's a
republic they're trying to express
something however that phrase doesn't
express it in its simplest terms when
you say we're a republic what your
loudly proclaiming is that England has a
new queen and we don't we don't have a
monarch we don't have a king that's what
it means that that's what it means it
doesn't mean all of the other stuff that
you you may want it to Express we'll do
it this way to illustrate it the UK has
a parliamentary system representative
democracy right there a constitutional
monarchy they're not a republic
China is a republic which one are we
closer to which one are we more closely
related to as far as our system of
government the UK government's don't fit
into nice neat little buckets like that
there's a lot of blurry lines but saying
that we're a republic certainly does not
express what most people are trying to
express when they say that what they're
really trying to say is that we are a
constitutional representative democracy
with a federal system that has checks
and balances and therefore we are
protected from the tyranny of the
majority that comes along with direct
democracy that's really what they're
trying to say that's a whole lot of
words to say it but that's what they're
trying to say in the United States there
is this idea of the tyranny of the
majority that if we have a direct
democracy that 51% of people can oppress
the other 49% of people yeah sure if the
democracy threshold is set at 51% there
is no law saying that it has to be it
can be 60 or 75 percent if need be but
that's what it's trying that's what
they're trying to express we are
protected from this because of our
Constitution our our minority groups are
protected the Constitution protects them
as it did for black Americans during
slavery and segregation and the natives
and the Japanese during World War two it
doesn't actually work that's made up
it's not a real thing that that concept
is just false it's been proven to be
inaccurate throughout all of American
history but taking it a step further the
worry is that the majority of people so
let's just say that everybody in the US
can vote so 360 million people so we
would need 180 million and one to
achieve that 50
1% threshold that that majority can
oppress the other 49 and that's bad so
instead of that what we've done is we
have chosen to trust our betters in DC
to make the decisions for us and
instituted a tyranny of the minority
where if the requisite number from the
House and the Senate and the president
agree it happens so we're talking about
less than 500 people can't institute
tyranny over the other 360 million no
they're elected they have to represent
us do they doesn't seem like it but
after they are elected what can we do so
if the day after the election once there
once they're in office the day they take
office they decide to institute some
form of tyranny what can we do what will
rise up now you're back to direct
democracy
this idea that the Constitution offers
these protections it's something that
we're going to have to question
eventually we're going to have to
acknowledge at some point that major
portions of the Constitution are there
strictly to protect the ruling class and
to disenfranchise many people and we
have to acknowledge that we the people
didn't actually mean
we the people at the time it meant a
certain set of people not everybody but
I would suggest that this conversation
is pointless because governments don't
fit into buckets like that the UK for
example it's a kingdom is it more like
US or Saudi Arabia
you can't group them like that it
doesn't work you have to go off of the
the whole character of the country
rather than just little bits and pieces
of what makes it up and we're going to
go into this in another video soon when
we talk about capitalism and communism
because there's the same thing happens
there but
I would with all of the questions and
all of the problems that we've had with
our democracy as of late it may be time
to revisit some of those things that we
hold to be true were protected based on
this and examine whether or not we
actually are protected anyway it's just
a thought y'all have a good night